In this tutorial you're going to learn how to send emails in python, this is
particularly useful if you have a database of customers and you want to send them
various emails based on their interests, so let me show you how to send
emails in python, basically we need to import a couple of classes
1 to create email messages, and the other to connect with an
map server for sending emails. So from
email.mime.multipart.
We should import the mime multipart class.
What is going on here? So basically we have this email package
in python standard library, in this package we have a sub package called
mime. Mime stands for multipurpose internet mail
extensions. And this is the standard that defines the format for email messages.
This has nothing to do with python, it's purely a standard for defining the format
of emails. In this package we have another
sub package that is multi part that exposes a class called
mime multipart. With this object, we can send
the email message that includes both html and plain text
content. So when the email client of the receiver receives this email message
if it supports html it will render the html content
otherwise it will render plain text content. So
Now, lets go ahead and create the mime multi part
object. So Mime multipart, we store it here,
in message, now we need to set
various headers, so message we use the square brackets to set
from, I'm going to set that to Mosh Hamedani.
Similarly, we set to,
let's send that to test user at code with mosh,
.com, next we need to set the
subject so let's say this is a test.
So these are various headers supported by mime
multi part objects, but we don't have a header called body. So to set
the body, we need to attach it to this message. So this message object
has a method called attach that gets a
payload, this payload can read text, image, or other types supported by
mime protocol. So, on the top,
from email.mime.text module
we need to import the mime text class.
Now to set the body of this message, we need to create
a mime text object, so mime text, and include our mime text
here. So lets say body. Now by default
we can see the value of the second parameter is set to plain, which refers to
plain text. If you want to pass html content, you should set
this to html, and pass an actual html text here,
but I'm going to leave that to the next lecture, so for now, lets just send
plain text content. So here we have a mail message object
now we need to send this using an empty server, so on the
top, let's import the smtplib module,
this module has a class, called
smtp, and here we need to pass two keyword arguments,
first one is host, I'm going to set that to smtp
.gmail.com and port to
587. The values we set here depend
on the smtp server we use. Now this returns an smtp object
when we are done with it, we should make sure to
close it, to release this resource, so I would prefer to use the with
statement, and get that smtp object right here,
Alright, now, there are a few
steps that we need to follow before we send an email, first we need to call
smtp. smtp.
hello, well this is spelled differently but this is a hello message, or
greeting to the smtp server, basically we're telling the smtp server hey
I'm the client, I want to send an email, and this is part of
the smtp protocol. So the communication between the client and an
smtp server should start with the hello message. Next
we need to call smtp.starttls. And
this puts the smtp connection in tls mode. tls
stands for transport layer security, with this all the commands we set
to the smtp server will be encrypted, now you're ready to login,
So, we call smtp.login,
we pass our username and password here, so test user
@codewithmosh.com and the
password is today, sky is blue 1234,
don't try this because I'm going to delete this email account after recording this video.
Alright, and finally we call smtp
.send message and pass our
email message object, that's all we have to do. Now
for confirmation let's print set.
Save the changes, I'm going to go ahead and run this program
so our email message was sent successfully, beautiful
in a real world application, various things could go wrong so make sure to handle
exceptions using a try block. Now here on
my email client, you can see I got a message with the right subject,
and body. Let's take this to the next level. I want to attach an
image to this message. So here on line 9,
just like how we attached text to this message, we can also attach image,
on the top, from email.mime
.image we need to import the mime
image class. Now here in this directory I've put
a picture of myself mosh.tmg so
after line 10, I'm going to call
message.
message image object, here we need to pass our image data in binary.
So we need to import our path class
from path lib let's import
path class. Now we create a path object
and load mosh.png
as you learned before this has method read bytes.
So this returns all the data in the file in binary, now,
we save the changes, send this one more time,
okay, send, now back to my email client, you see I got a second
message and here's a picture of me.